Build information ci cd (#406)
OctopusDeploy/blog: blog/2021-03/build-information-and-your-ci-cd-pipeline/index.md

---
title: "Use build information for visibility across your CI/CD pipelines"
description: Learn how to include build information from your CI server in your CD processes. 
author: shawn.sesna@octopus.com 
visibility: public

> published: 2021-03-22-1400

Reviewer: ```suggestion
published: 2021-03-24-1400
```

metaImage: blogimage-build-info.png
bannerImage: blogimage-build-info.png
tags:
 - DevOps
 - Continuous Integration
---

![Octopus with build information](blogimage-build-info.png)

Continuous Integration (CI) typically involves three components: 

> 1. A source control server.
> 1. Issue tracking.
> 1. A build server.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A source control server
1. Issue tracking
1. A build server
```

:::hint
It's important to note that while commits will work in all cases, issue tracking will only function if you have one of the following integrations configured in Octopus Deploy:

- Azure DevOps Issue Tracking
- GitHub Issue Tracking
- Jira Integration
:::

In this post, I walk through configuring TeamCity and Octopus Deploy to include build information and how this can be used during the deployment process.

## Example scenario
For this demonstration, I use the scenario described above: GitHub ([OctoPetShop](https://github.com/OctopusSamples/OctoPetShop)), TeamCity, and Jira. I address these specific technologies, but the overall process is similar regardless of which tools you use.

This post assumes you already know how to create a project within Jira.

### Create an issue
We'll start off by logging a bug in Jira for the OctoPetShop application. 

![The create an issue screen in Jira](jira-issue.png)
  
After the issue has been created, we need to take note of the `key` value, as we need this to correctly tag our commits.  In this case, the value is `OPS-1`.

![The Jira issue key](jira-issue-ops-1.png)

> ### Connect a commit to issue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Connect a commit to an issue
```

```

## Configure the build to push build information

Octopus Deploy provides first-class integration with many [build servers](https://octopus.com/docs/packaging-applications/build-servers) in the form of plugins:

- Azure DevOps
- TeamCity
- Jenkins
- Bamboo

In addition to the available plugins, there are some community supported integrations with online-only build servers:

- CircleCI
- GitHub Actions
- BitBucket Pipelines
- AppVeyor

For this demonstration, we're using TeamCity. 

1. Add a new step to your build definition by choosing the **Octopus Deploy: Build Information** runner. 
1. Fill in the required values:
- **Octopus URL**: URL to your Octopus server
- **API key**: API key with permissions to push build information
- **Space name**: Name of the space to push to (leave blank for default)
- **Package IDs**: List of packages to apply the build information to

![TeamCity push build information step](teamcity-push-build-information.png)

Issuing a build, we can see our change has been picked up by the build server.

![TeamCity commit message](teamcity-build-commit-message.png)

> ## Configure the Issue Tracking integration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure the issue tracking integration
```

> As mentioned, the issue tracking for build information will not work until you configure the corresponding integration in Octopus Deploy. For this demonstration, we need to configure the [Jira integration](https://octopus.com/docs/releases/issue-tracking/jira).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned, issue tracking for build information will not work until you configure the corresponding integration in Octopus Deploy. For this demonstration, we need to configure the [Jira integration](https://octopus.com/docs/releases/issue-tracking/jira).  
```

:::hint
All of the Octopus Deploy issues integrations contain the `Release Note Prefix` feature.
:::

The title of our issue is `Incorrect tax calculated`, which doesn't make for a terribly useful release note. Instead, we'd like it to show up as `Improved tax rate calculation based on location.`

To do this, we add a comment to the Jira issue using our defined prefix:

![Jira issue comment](jira-issue-comment.png)

In Octopus, we can see that the title of the work item has been updated to the desired value.

![Work item with the comment](octopus-build-information-comment.png)

## Keeping everyone informed

So far we've shown how the build information can be accessed via the Octopus Deploy Web Portal. However, not everyone in an organization has access to Octopus Deploy, such as Quality Assurance (QA) teams. Octopus Deploy has some built-in variables that can be used to share the build information.

### Project release notes template

> In the project's settings you can define a [release notes template](https://octopus.com/docs/releases/release-notes#Release-Notes-Templates). The template allows you to customize the display of the build information related to the packages. Here's an example template:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the project's settings, you can define a [release notes template](https://octopus.com/docs/releases/release-notes#Release-Notes-Templates). The template allows you to customize the display of the build information related to the packages. Here's an example template:
```

> In the project's settings you can define a [release notes template](https://octopus.com/docs/releases/release-notes#Release-Notes-Templates). The template allows you to customize the display of the build information related to the packages. Here's an example template:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the project's settings, you can define a [release notes template](https://octopus.com/docs/releases/release-notes#Release-Notes-Templates). The template allows you to customize the display of the build information related to the packages. Here's an example template:
```

> In the settings of a project is a space where you can define a [release notes template](https://octopus.com/docs/releases/release-notes#Release-Notes-Templates). The template allows you to customize the display of the build information related to the packages. Here's an example template:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the project's settings you can define a [release notes template](https://octopus.com/docs/releases/release-notes#Release-Notes-Templates). The template allows you to customize the display of the build information related to the packages. Here's an example template:
```

```
#{each workItem in Octopus.Release.WorkItems}#{if Octopus.Template.Each.First == "True"}WorkItems:#{/if}
- [#{workItem.Id}](#{workItem.LinkUrl}) - #{workItem.Description}
#{/each}

Packages:
#{each package in Octopus.Release.Package}
- #{package.PackageId} #{package.Version}
#{each commit in package.Commits}
    - [#{commit.CommitId}](#{commit.LinkUrl}) - #{commit.Comment}
#{/each}
#{/each}
```

:::warning
The `Octopus.Release.Package` variable is _only_ available for use in release notes templates. It is not available during a deployment process such as a **Run a script** step.
:::

With a template defined, the release notes are accessible during a deployment via the `Octopus.Release.Notes` variable. Using something like Slack, you can include the build information in a notification message.

![Slack notification step](octopus-process-slack.png)

> Since each package was tagged with the build information, the resulting message would look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since each package was tagged with the build information, the message will look like this:
```
